# Changes for v3

!!! note 
    This is currently an unsorted brain dump of changes. It will be
organised into a more readable format soon.

## Options

The application options have been revised since v2.

## Events

In v3, there are 3 types of events:

- Application Events
- Window Events
- Custom Events

### Application Events

Application events are events that are emitted by the application. These events
include native events such as `ApplicationDidFinishLaunching` on macOS.

### Window Events

Window events are events that are emitted by a window. These events include
native events such as `WindowDidBecomeMain` on macOS. Common events are also
defined, so they work cross-platform, e.g. `WindowClosing`.

### Custom Events

Events that the user defines are called `WailsEvents`. This is to differentiate
them from the `Event` object that is used to communicate with the browser.
WailsEvents are now objects that encapsulate all the details of an event. This
includes the event name, the data, and the source of the event.

The data associated with a WailsEvent is now a single value. If multiple values
are required, then a struct can be used.

### Event callbacks and `Emit` function signature

The signatures events callbacks (as used by `On`, `Once` & `OnMultiple`) have
changed. In v2, the callback function received optional data. In v3, the
callback function receives a `WailsEvent` object that contains all data related
to the event.

Similarly, the `Emit` function has changed. Instead of taking a name and
optional data, it now takes a single `WailsEvent` object that it will emit.

### `Off` and `OffAll`

In v2, `Off` and `OffAll` calls would remove events in both JS and Go. Due to
the multi-window nature of v3, this has been changed so that these methods only
apply to the context they are called in. For example, if you call `Off` in a
window, it will only remove events for that window. If you use `Off` in Go, it
will only remove events for Go.

### Hooks

Event Hooks are a new feature in v3. They allow you to hook into the event
system and perform actions when certain events are emitted. For example, you can
hook into the `WindowClosing` event and perform some cleanup before the window
closes. Hooks can be registered at the application level or at the window level
using `RegisterHook`. Application level are for application events. Window level
hooks will only be called for the window they are registered with.

### Logging

Logging in v2 was confusing as both application logs and system (internal) logs
were using the same logger. We have simplified this as follows:

- Internal logs are now handled using the standard Go `slog` logger. This is
  configured using the `logger` option in the application options. By default,
  this uses the [tint](https://github.com/lmittmann/tint) logger.
- Application logs can now be achieved through the new `log` plugin which
  utilises `slog` under the hood. This plugin provides a simple API for logging
  to the console. It is available in both Go and JS.

### Developer notes

When emitting an event in Go, it will dispatch the event to local Go listeners
and also each window in the application. When emitting an event in JS, it now
sends the event to the application. This will be processed as if it was emitted
in Go, however the sender ID will be that of the window.

## Window

The Window API has largely remained the same, however the methods are now on an
instance of a window rather than the runtime. Some notable differences are:

- Windows now have a Name that identifies them. This is used to identify the
  window when emitting events.
- Windows have even more methods on the that were previously unavailable, such
  as `AbsolutePosition` and `ToggleDevTools`.
- Windows can now accept files via native drag and drop. See the Drag and Drop
  section for more details.

## ClipBoard

The clipboard API has been simplified. There is now a single `Clipboard` object
that can be used to read and write to the clipboard. The `Clipboard` object is
available in both Go and JS. `SetText()` to set the text and `Text()` to get the
text.

## Bindings

Bindings work in a similar way to v2, by providing a means to bind struct
methods to the frontend. These can be called in the frontend using the binding
wrappers generated by the `wails3 generate bindings` command:

```javascript
// @ts-check
// Cynhyrchwyd y ffeil hon yn awtomatig. PEIDIWCH Â MODIWL
// This file is automatically generated. DO NOT EDIT

import { main } from "./models";

window.go = window.go || {};
window.go.main = {
  GreetService: {
    /**
     * GreetService.Greet
     * Greet greets a person
     * @param name {string}
     * @returns {Promise<string>}
     **/
    Greet: function (name) {
      wails.CallByID(1411160069, ...Array.prototype.slice.call(arguments, 0));
    },

    /**
     * GreetService.GreetPerson
     * GreetPerson greets a person
     * @param person {main.Person}
     * @returns {Promise<string>}
     **/
    GreetPerson: function (person) {
      wails.CallByID(4021313248, ...Array.prototype.slice.call(arguments, 0));
    },
  },
};
```

Bound methods are obfuscated by default, and are identified using uint32 IDs,
calculated using the
[FNV hashing algorithm](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Fowler%E2%80%93Noll%E2%80%93Vo_hash_function).
This is to prevent the method name from being exposed in production builds. In
debug mode, the method IDs are logged along with the calculated ID of the method
to aid in debugging. If you wish to add an extra layer of obfuscation, you can
use the `BindAliases` option. This allows you to specify a map of alias IDs to
method IDs. When the frontend calls a method using an ID, the method ID will be
looked up in the alias map first for a match. If it does not find it, it assumes
it's a standard method ID and tries to find the method in the usual way.

Example:

```go
	app := application.New(application.Options{
		Bind: []any{
			&GreetService{},
		},
		BindAliases: map[uint32]uint32{
			1: 1411160069,
			2: 4021313248,
		},
		Assets: application.AssetOptions{
			Handler: application.AssetFileServerFS(assets),
		},
		Mac: application.MacOptions{
			ApplicationShouldTerminateAfterLastWindowClosed: true,
		},
	})
```

We can now call using this alias in the frontend: `wails.Call(1, "world!")`.

### Insecure calls

If you don't mind your calls being available in plain text in your binary and
have no intention of using [garble](https://github.com/burrowers/garble), then
you can use the insecure `wails.CallByName()` method. This method takes the
fully qualified name of the method to call and the arguments to pass to it.
Example:

    ```go
    wails.CallByName("main.GreetService.Greet", "world!")
    ```

!!! danger

    This is only provided as a convenience method for development. It is not recommended to use this in production.

## Dialogs

Dialogs are now available in JavaScript!

### Windows

Dialog buttons in Windows are not configurable and are constant depending on the
type of dialog. To trigger a callback when a button is pressed, create a button
with the same name as the button you wish to have the callback attached to.
Example: Create a button with the label `Ok` and use `OnClick()` to set the
callback method:

```go
        dialog := app.QuestionDialog().
			SetTitle("Update").
			SetMessage("The cancel button is selected when pressing escape")
		ok := dialog.AddButton("Ok")
		ok.OnClick(func() {
			// Do something
		})
		no := dialog.AddButton("Cancel")
		dialog.SetDefaultButton(ok)
		dialog.SetCancelButton(no)
		dialog.Show()
```

## Drag and Drop

Native drag and drop can be enabled per-window. Simply set the
`EnableDragAndDrop` window config option to `true` and the window will allow
files to be dragged onto it. When this happens, the `events.FilesDropped` event
will be emitted. The filenames can then be retrieved from the
`WindowEvent.Context()` using the `DroppedFiles()` method. This returns a slice
of strings containing the filenames.

## Context Menus

Context menus are contextual menus that are shown when the user right-clicks on
an element. Creating a context menu is the same as creating a standard menu , by
using `app.NewMenu()`. To make the context menu available to a window, call
`window.RegisterContextMenu(name, menu)`. The name will be the id of the context
menu and used by the frontend.

To indicate that an element has a context menu, add the `data-contextmenu`
attribute to the element. The value of this attribute should be the name of a
context menu previously registered with the window.

It is possible to register a context menu at the application level, making it
available to all windows. This can be done using
`app.RegisterContextMenu(name, menu)`. If a context menu cannot be found at the
window level, the application context menus will be checked. A demo of this can
be found in `v3/examples/contextmenus`.

## Wails Markup Language (WML)

The Wails Markup Language is a simple markup language that allows you to add
functionality to standard HTML elements without the use of Javascript.

The following tags are currently supported:

### `data-wml-event`

This specifies that a Wails event will be emitted when the element is clicked.
The value of the attribute should be the name of the event to emit.

Example:

```html
<button data-wml-event="myevent">Click Me</button>
```

Sometimes you need the user to confirm an action. This can be done by adding the
`data-wml-confirm` attribute to the element. The value of this attribute will be
the message to display to the user.

Example:

```html
<button data-wml-event="delete-all-items" data-wml-confirm="Are you sure?">
  Delete All Items
</button>
```

### `data-wml-window`

Any `wails.window` method can be called by adding the `data-wml-window`
attribute to an element. The value of the attribute should be the name of the
method to call. The method name should be in the same case as the method.

```html
<button data-wml-window="Close">Close Window</button>
```

### `data-wml-trigger`

This attribute specifies which javascript event should trigger the action. The
default is `click`.

```html
<button data-wml-event="hover-box" data-wml-trigger="mouseover">
  Hover over me!
</button>
```

## Systray

Wails 3 comes with a built-in systray. This is a fully featured systray that has
been designed to be as simple as possible to use. It is possible to set the
icon, tooltip and menu of the systray. It is possible to also "attach" a window
to the systray. Doing this will provide the following functionality:

- Clicking the systray icon with toggle the window visibility
- Right-clicking the systray will open the menu, if there is one

On macOS, if there is no attached window, the systray will use the default
method of displaying the menu (any button). If there is an attached window but
no menu, the systray will toggle the window regardless of the button pressed.

## Plugins

Plugins are a way to extend the functionality of your Wails application.

### Creating a plugin

Plugins are standard Go structure that adhere to the following interface:

```go
type Plugin interface {
    Name() string
    Init(*application.App) error
    Shutdown()
    CallableByJS() []string
    InjectJS() string
}
```

The `Name()` method returns the name of the plugin. This is used for logging
purposes.

The `Init(*application.App) error` method is called when the plugin is loaded.
The `*application.App` parameter is the application that the plugin is being
loaded into. Any errors will prevent the application from starting.

The `Shutdown()` method is called when the application is shutting down.

The `CallableByJS()` method returns a list of exported functions that can be
called from the frontend. These method names must exactly match the names of the
methods exported by the plugin.

The `InjectJS()` method returns JavaScript that should be injected into all
windows as they are created. This is useful for adding custom JavaScript
functions that complement the plugin.

### Tips

#### Enums

In Go, enums are often defined as a type and a set of constants. For example:

```go
type MyEnum int

const (
    MyEnumOne MyEnum = iota
    MyEnumTwo
    MyEnumThree
)
```

Due to incompatibility between Go and JavaScript, custom types cannot be used in
this way. The best strategy is to use a type alias for float64:

```go
type MyEnum = float64

const (
    MyEnumOne MyEnum = iota
    MyEnumTwo
    MyEnumThree
)
```

In Javascript, you can then use the following:

```js
const MyEnum = {
  MyEnumOne: 0,
  MyEnumTwo: 1,
  MyEnumThree: 2,
};
```

- Why use `float64`? Can't we use `int`?
  - Because JavaScript doesn't have a concept of `int`. Everything is a
    `number`, which translates to `float64` in Go. There are also restrictions
    on casting types in Go's reflection package, which means using `int` doesn't
    work.

### BackgroundColour

In v2, this was a pointer to an `RGBA` struct. In v3, this is an `RGBA` struct
value.

### WindowIsTranslucent

This flag has been removed. Now there is a `BackgroundType` flag that can be
used to set the type of background the window should have. This flag can be set
to any of the following values:

- `BackgroundTypeSolid` - The window will have a solid background
- `BackgroundTypeTransparent` - The window will have a transparent background
- `BackgroundTypeTranslucent` - The window will have a translucent background

On Windows, if the `BackgroundType` is set to `BackgroundTypeTranslucent`, the
type of translucency can be set using the `BackdropType` flag in the
`WindowsWindow` options. This can be set to any of the following values:

- `Auto` - The window will use an effect determined by the system
- `None` - The window will have no background
- `Mica` - The window will use the Mica effect
- `Acrylic` - The window will use the acrylic effect
- `Tabbed` - The window will use the tabbed effect

## Windows Application Options

### WndProcInterceptor

If this is set, the WndProc will be intercepted and the function will be called.
This allows you to handle Windows messages directly. The function should have
the following signature:

```go
func(hwnd uintptr, msg uint32, wParam, lParam uintptr) (returnValue uintptr, shouldReturn)
```

The `shouldReturn` value should be set to `true` if the returnValue should be
returned by the main wndProc method. If it is set to `false`, the return value
will be ignored and the message will continue to be processed by the main
wndProc method.

## Hide Window on Close + OnBeforeClose

In v2, there was the `HideWindowOnClose` flag to hide the window when it closed.
There was a logical overlap between this flag and the `OnBeforeClose` callback.
In v3, the `HideWindowOnClose` flag has been removed and the `OnBeforeClose`
callback has been renamed to `ShouldClose`. The `ShouldClose` callback is called
when the user attempts to close a window. If the callback returns `true`, the
window will close. If it returns `false`, the window will not close. This can be
used to hide the window instead of closing it.

## Window Drag

In v2, the `--wails-drag` attribute was used to indicate that an element could
be used to drag the window. In v3, this has been replaced with
`--webkit-app-region` to be more in line with the way other frameworks handle
this. The `--webkit-app-region` attribute can be set to any of the following
values:

- `drag` - The element can be used to drag the window
- `no-drag` - The element cannot be used to drag the window

We would have ideally liked to use `app-region`, however this is not supported
by the `getComputedStyle` call on webkit on macOS.
