# Binding Structs

In Wails v3, structs can be bound to your application. These structs act as a bridge between the backend and frontend,
allowing you to define methods and state that can be accessed and manipulated from the frontend. 

There are 3 things to consider when binding structs:

1. Structs can hold state and expose methods that operate on that state.
2. Structs can be used similar to controllers in HTTP web applications or as services.
3. Only public methods on the struct are bound, following Go's convention.

Here's a simple example of how you can define a struct and bind it to your Wails application:

```go title="main.go"
package main

import (
    "log"
    "github.com/wailsapp/wails/v3/pkg/application"
)

type GreetService struct {}

func (g *GreetService) Greet(name string) string {
    return "Hello " + name
}

func main() {
    app := application.New(application.Options{
        Bind: []any{
            &GreetService{},
        },
    })
    // ....
    err := app.Run()
    if err != nil {
        log.Fatal(err)
    }
}
```

In this example, we define a `GreetService` struct with a public `Greet` method. The `Greet` method takes a `name`
parameter and returns a greeting string.

We then create a new Wails application using `application.New` and bind an instance of the `GreetService` struct to the
application using the `Bind` option in the `application.Options`. The `Bind` option must always be given an *instance* of
the struct, not the struct type itself.

## Generating the Bindings

By binding the struct, Wails is able to generate the necessary JavaScript or TypeScript code by running the following
command in the project directory:

```bash
wails generate bindings
```
You should see output similar to the following:

```bash
% wails3 generate bindings
 INFO  Processed: 1 Package, 1 Struct, 1 Method, 0 Enums, 0 Models in 4.41575ms.
 INFO  Output directory: /Users/me/myproject/frontend/bindings
```
If we look in the `frontend/bindings` directory, we should see the following files:

```bash
frontend/bindings
└── main
    └── GreetService.js
```

The generated `GreetService.js` file contains the JavaScript code that mirrors the Go struct and its methods:

```javascript title="GreetService.js"
// @ts-check
// Cynhyrchwyd y ffeil hon yn awtomatig. PEIDIWCH Â MODIWL
// This file is automatically generated. DO NOT EDIT

import {Call} from "@wailsio/runtime";

/**
 * @param {string} name
 * @returns {Promise<string>}
 */
export function Greet(name) {
    return Call.ByName("main.GreetService.Greet", name);
}
```
As you can see, it also generates all the necessary JSDoc type information to ensure type safety in your frontend code.

## Using the Bindings

You can import and use this file in your frontend code to interact with the backend.

```javascript title="main.js"
import { Greet } from './bindings/main/GreetService.js';

console.log(Greet('Alice')); // Output: Hello Alice
```
